---
layout: single_passage
title:  John 1&#58;9-13&#58; Becoming Children of God
weight: 43.00109
book_name: John
chapter_name: John 1
creation_date: May 14, 2019
tags: [passage, grace, Reformed Theology, faith, creation]
people: [John the Baptist]
---

## Coming Into the World

I think v.9 belongs with the previous paragraph, coupled with v8.  This reading would basically say, "John was a witness to the light... and this light was coming into the world."

Jesus was in the world.  This Word, this deed, this message of God, was among us.  "Yet the world did not know him."  He was here, but we didn't recognize him.  We didn't understaind him (v5), and we didn't overcome him.

"He was in the world, and the world was made through him."  John's saying that we didn't recongnize our own creator, but you'd think that we would.  Is it because of the Darkness?

## Receiving Jesus

"He came to his own..."  Even the Jewish people didn't recongnize him.  Actually, the world is "receive."  Maybe his people did recognize him but didn't accept him.  I think this is the case, because <em>some</em> people did receive him.

In v 12, John renames "receive" with "believed in his name."  So, in v11, God's people who didn't receive him actually weren't believing in his name.

What does it mean to "believe in his name"? Believe is "pisteuo," meaning that those who put their faith, or trust, in his name, and his name is his glory, his fame, his reputation.

So, those who received him were those who put their trust in his reputation.  Those who believed that he was God.

## Becoming Children of God

Those who believed in his name <em>were given</em> the <em>right</em> to become children of God.

A few points here:
<ul>
<li>This was bestowed upon them, not taken by them, or possibly even chosen by them</li>
<li>This is a <em>right</em>, a guaranteed action</li>
<li>They became children of God, not remaining just a mere creation of him</li>
</ul>

So, although this is a right of these people, it is only because Jesus gives them this right.  Being a right, this is something we can put our trust and hope upon.  It's a guarantee (See Eph 1:13, 14).

Being a child of God is not the same as being a creation of God.  It's a different status and a different relationship.  I suppose this is a bit like Pinnochio and Geppetto.  Pinnochio was a creation, but he became a son.  Geppetto created a lot of puppets, but this one had a real relationship with him.  Furthermore, this was the relationship of a father and child, not a boss and employee, not even a stepfather/stepson relationship.

It would be interesting to see how revolutionary this idea of "God as Father" was at the time.  Was God portrayed as a father very often in the Old Testament?  If so, did it reflect the importance of this role as Jesus portrayed it?

This birth (v13) was not a literal hereditary one (by blood), nor of the desire by our humanity (will of the flesh), nor of the work or trying by these humans (will [desire] of man), but of God.

To cut out any cruft, "This birth was <em>of</em> God."  That's an interesting concept.  The idea of fleshly or human will is completely removed from this birth.  This birth had nothing to do with our bodies, desires, or work.  It was done by God.  Note that this birth completely disregards man's will.

Keep in mind that this word translated "of" (as in "of" God), is a genetive, not an instrumental. It's an idea of the birth <em>belonging</em> to God, not belonging to our will.  John's not talking about <em>how</em> we become children of God, but whom the process (birth) belongs to.

