---
layout: single_passage
title:  John 1&#58;14-18&#58; The Word Became Flesh
weight: 43.00114
book_name: John
chapter_name: John 1
creation_date: May 15, 2019
tags: [passage]
---

### The Word Became Flesh

The Message, the Mission of God (The Word) became human.  Flesh (σάρξ) is used for "meat" (of an animal), "the body", and "human nature."  It [comes from an older word](https://www.blueletterbible.org/lang/lexicon/lexicon.cfm?t=kjv&strongs=g4561) that gives σάρξ the denotation of "that which is stripped off of the bone," or "that which is stripped of skin."  See also John 1:13.

God took on human form.  The author of the story became a character in the story.  To use Tim Keller's metaphor, it's as though Shakespear entered his own play.

### The Word Dwelt Among Us

God literally _tabernacled_ among us.  He pitched his tent in our camp.  He set up residence and established a life here.

### We Have Seen His Glory

We (meaning the apostles? humanity?) have seen (θεάομαι: studied, perceived with the eyes) his glory.

The glory is splendor, majesty, and brightness (as in the sun).  When we saw Jesus, our eyes were upon God's radiance.

This is directly connected with v. 18 (see below)

### The Glory Only a Son can Reveal

"...glory as of the only son from the father." Jesus showed us the radiance of God.  It's something only the very son could reveal about his father.

And, this glory is full of grace and truth.  Generosity.  Reality.  Jesus reveals God's generosity paired the reality of God.

Note that Jesus didn't reveal God's judgement upon mankind, but God's generosity.

### More Clarification About John the Baptist

Parenthetically, John further clarifies that John the Baptist was pointing the way to Jesus, the one "who ranks before" him.  John the Baptist was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light (v 7)

### Grace Upon Grace

"From his fullness we have all received, grace upon grace."

In the ESV, this sentence is a bit confusing.  It sounds like the comma shouldn't be there.  The KJV is a bit more clear, showing that we have received two things from Jesus: 1. God's fullness, and 2. grace (upon grace).

We receive (λαμβάνω) God's fullness (πληρόω).  In Jesus we get the full presence of God.  He's the whole package.  We can look at Jesus and see who God is.  λαμβάνω implies that we take hold of the abundance, the "filling-ness" of God.

Grace upon grace.  Literally "χάριν ἀντὶ χάριτος."  χάριν is a direct object of the verb.  χάριτος is the genetive, which is coupled with ἀντὶ.  ἀντὶ means "before", "over against", or "instead of."   Typically it means "instead of", but can rarely mean "in addition to."  Also, "exchange" or "succession."  Because "grace instead of grace" doesn't really mean anything, I think John is saying "grace added to grace" or "grace piled upon grace" or "grace multiplied."

All of this points back to v 14, that from Jesus we see God's glory full of grace and truth.  This generosity from God is heaped upon us in Jesus.  **Jesus taking on flesh really is God's greatest gift to humanity.**

### Law vs. Grace

Moses brought The Law, and Jesus brought Grace and Truth.

It's fascinating that John has now coupled Grace and Truth together twice.  Is this a jab at gnositicism?  I'm not sure.

It's important to note that it's not Satan who chases us toward Hell, but Moses.  It's "his" law that convicts us of sin, and that sin can only bring death, while Jesus brings God's grace and mercy.

### Jesus Made God Known

No one has ever seen God, but Jesus has made him known (v 18)

Note that in 17 Moses is specifically mentioned, the person who saw God's back, yet in v. 18 John still says, "no one has ever seen God."

John also repeats this sentiment in 1 John 4:11-12: "Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another.  No one has ever seen God; if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us."

Why did John stick this phrase in the middle of a passage about loving one another?

"the only God, who is at the Father's side, he has made him known."  "...the only God" is literally "the only begotten son, which is in the bosom of the father." [μονογενὴς θεὸς ὁ ὢν εἰς τὸν κόλπον τοῦ πατρὸς]


Did God make Jesus (the God at the Father's side) known, or did Jesus make the Father known? "make known" (ἐξηγήσατο) is an Aorist  Indicitive Middle Deponent -- basically an active action but upon the subject itself.  "He has declared himself"?  I really can't tell.
