---
layout: single_passage
title:  John 1&#58;19-24&#58; John The Baptist Questioned
weight: 43.00119
book_name: John
chapter_name: John 1
creation_date: May 16, 2019
tags: [passage, John the Baptist]
---

### John The Baptist's Testimony

In this passage, John the Baptist answers the questions of the priests and Levites sent by the Pharisees in Jerusalem.

In v19, I'm not sure if the first phrase, "And this is the testimony of John," is the start of this passage or the end of the previous one (basically, that the Word became flesh, and he has been made known to us).

Note the use of the word "testimony" and "confess" here.  There is a difference between these words.  "Testimony" (μαρτυρία) is a judicial term, as in "this is the _record_ of John..."  Compare this with "confess" (ὁμολογέω): "to assent, to acknowledge, to profess."  In English these appear to be similar words, but in the Greek there is a significant difference.

To go back to "And this is the testimony of John," this use of testimony here indicates that this does, in fact, belong in this passage and not the previous one.  "This is the record of John:..." I think would be a good way to render it.

Note John's emphasis on John the Baptist not being the Light.  John writes, "He confessed, and did not deny, but confessed: I am not the Christ."  Meaning, he did not deny that he was not the Christ (double negative).

### A Prophet

The priests and Levites then ask him if he is one of two people:

* *Elijah* - Elijah was prophesied to come before the Day of the Lord in Malachai 4:5:

<blockquote>"Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the LORD comes."</blockquote>

This is interesting, as it is one of the last things God spoke in the Old Testament.

* *The Prophet* - A reference to the Prophet prophesied by Moses in Deuteronomy 18:15.

<blockquote>"The LORD your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you... And I will put my words in his mouth and he shall speakj to them all that I command him."</blockquote>

These ideas were still circulating during Jesus's ministry.  At _Peter's Confession of the Christ_ (Mt 16:13 ff), the disciples respond with, "Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and other Jeremiah or one of the prophets."

The priests & Levites want to determine if he's one of those sent to speak for God, another prophet.  It had been 400 years since God had spoken to his people.

This points to the power of John the Baptist's ministry.  He was attracting enough attention and spoke with enough authority that it was worth the time of the Pharisees to question him.

I like v22: "Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us?" They knew they couldn't return to their bosses without some kind of answer.

John's response is to point them to another figure from prophecy: The voice crying out in the wilderness (Is 40:3).



