---
layout: single_passage
title:  John 1&#58;24-28&#58; John The Baptizer
weight: 43.00124
book_name: John
chapter_name: John 1
creation_date: May 17, 2019
tags: [passage, baptism]
people: [John the Baptist, Pharisees, Mary, Elizabeth, The Holy Spirit]
---

### Baptism

The term "baptism" didn't exist before the KJV.  King James was part of the Church of England, which practices sprinkling baptism.  In view of this, his translators didn't translate βαπτίζω as "dunking," but chose to create a new word, "baptism," to avoid sparking controversy.  This is an important distinction, as it can lead to confusion about our method of baptism.  In fact, John the Baptist is probably better translated as "John the Dunker."

Now, I'm not one to get wrapped around the axle on a matter of practice (I'm much more concerned about proper theological meaning), so I don't really care too much whether a group practices immersion or not.  Dunking seems much more appropriate, as it is the clear method used in the NT.

### John the Dunker

Baptism at the time of John the Baptist, before the Christian church was established, was practiced by the Jewish people as a sort of ceremonial cleansing before entering the Temple.  This practice was called _tivlah_ and was perfomed in naturally flowing water (_mikva_). It represented preparation to enter into the presence of God, and it washed away spiritual impurities.

This was required in several places in the Mosaic Law, including for cleansing after touching a corpse and before entering the Temple. _Immersion was also practiced for those converting to Judaism._

John the Baptist is known as the last of the Old Testament prophets, meaning not only his style, but also that once Jesus arrived there was no longer a need for these external messengers, but that mankind could hold the Holy Spirit within themselves for God to speak through.

### Further Questioning

It appears that John was baptizing as a sign for people to prepare themselves to be in the presence of the coming of God, which was fitting for his role as prophet.  This also gives us some perspective on why the priests and Levites questioned him on whether he was Elijah or the Prophet, as he was "preparing the way" for the Visitation.

After getting a somewhat non-specific response from John regarding his identity, they ask him why he is baptizing.

Note that in their questioning they now include the phrase, "if you are not the Christ," indicating that John the Baptist made it clear that also was not the Messiah.  John (the Apostle) wants to make this point unavoidably clear to the reader.

John says, "I baptize with water..." but doesn't complete this thought until v.33: "this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit."

Instead (back in v. 25) John the Baptist points to the one that the messengers are looking for, the Christ:

<blockquote>"...among you stands one you do not know, even he who comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie."</blockquote>

Taken literally, John the Baptist's statement indicates that Jesus was in the crowd that day.

### The Cousin of God

Jesus was John the Baptist's cousin.  In Lk 1:41, John the Baptist leapt in his mother's womb when she met with the pregnant Mary.  Elizabeth was "a relative" (Lk 1:36) of Mary, most likely meaning an aunt or cousin.  Guessing by the age difference, I assume an aunt or great aunt.

John was about six months older than Jesus (Lk 1:36).  Mary and Elizabeth lived in different towns, so it is unclear how well John and Jesus knew each other, but I have to wonder if they weren't close, if they didn't play together at least a bit as children.  The alignment they had in their ministries (Lk 7:18ff), that news of John's beheading was sent directly to Jesus (Mt 14:12) and Jesus's grief upon learning of his death (Mt 14:13) all reveal their closeness.