---
layout: single_passage
title:  John 1&#58;29-34&#58; Revealing Jesus
weight: 43.00129
book_name: John
chapter_name: John 1
creation_date: May 19, 2019
tags: [passage, baptism]
people: [John the Baptist, Andrew, The Holy Spirit]
locations: [Bethany]
---

### The Start of Jesus's Ministry

This passage marks the beginning of the first week of Jesus's ministry.  Note that vs.29, 35, 43, and 2:1 all begin, "the next day..." with the exception of 2:1 (The wedding at Cana), which begins with, "on the third day."

This section begins the day after the messengers from the Pharisees questioned John The Baptist.  I wonder if they were still present, as John says, "This is he of whom I said, 'After me comes a man who ranks before me...'"  He makes it clear that Jesus is the one he's be prophesying about.

Again, in the previous passage (v26), John the Baptist said that Jesus stood among the crowd that previous day.  It seems as though John the Baptist knew Jesus's true identity, but did not reveal it to the messengers, perhaps to protect him, or (more likely), because the time was not right.

### The Baptism of Jesus

Although it is not explicitly chronicled here, Jesus would have been baptized before this, as John the Baptist tells us that Jesus's true identity was revealed to him when he baptized Jesus and the Spirit descended on him like a dove (v.33).

To place this on the timeline, we see that the day after this present announcement, Andrew was a disciple of John the Baptist (v.40), which most likely places him at Jesus's baptism as well.

**So, Jesus was baptized (most likely with Andrew present), then the messengers from the Pharisees came, then the next day John the Baptist revealed Jesus true identity (and those messengers _may_ have still been present).**

### John Recognizes Jesus

I wonder what triggered John the Baptist to reveal Jesus at this time.

In vv.31 and 33 he says, "I myself did not know him..."  Again, they were cousins, so John _at least_ knew Jesus, and was actually probably much closer to him than an acquaintance.  It's quite plain that John the Baptist was talking about knowing if Jesus was The One.

It's telling that John the Baptist says, "...because he was before me."  John was 6 months older than Jesus in human terms, yet he recognized that Jesus existed long before him.

John the Baptist also says, "he who sent me... said to me, 'He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.'"

To rephrase John the Baptist's statements, he says, **"God told me The One would be the person He marked with the Spirit.  When I baptized Jesus this happened.  Jesus is my cousin, but I didn't recognize him as The One until that day."**

<blockquote>I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him. I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, 'He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.'<cite>John 1:33</cite></blockquote>


### The Lamb of God

John the Baptist knew Jesus's mission, even though even his disciples got it wrong.  As the Lamb of God, Jesus came to take away the sin of _the world_.  This statement is important for two reasons: 1. Unlike the disciples, John the Baptist didn't see Jesus as a military leader coming to raise an army and defeat the Romans, and 2. John says Jesus came to take away the sin of the entire world, not just the Israelites.

### The Role of The Spirit

John the Baptist points out that he was baptizing with _water_, in contrast to Jesus's baptism of the Spirit.  Of course, this baptism of the Spirit is a major theme in this gospel.

It is important to recognize the role of the The Spirit in empowering Jesus throughout his entire ministry.

<blockquote>The Spirit who was present and active at Christ's conception as the head of the new creation, by whom He was anointed at baptism (John 1:32-34), who directed Him throughout His temptations (Matthew 4:1), empowered Him in His miracles (Luke 11:20), energized Him in His sacrifice (Hebrews 9:14), and vindicated Him in His resurrection (1 Timothy 3:16; Romans 1:4), now indwells disciples in this specific identity.<cite>Sinclair Furgeson, The Holy Spirit</cite></blockquote>