---
layout: single_passage
title:  John 1&#58;43-51&#58; Call of Philip & Nathaniel
weight: 43.00143
book_name: John
chapter_name: John 1
creation_date: May 21, 2019
tags: [passage, prophecy]
people: [Philip, Nathaniel, Joseph, Jacob, Disciples]
locations: [Galilee, Nazareth, Bethsaida]
---
Jesus goes to Galilee and Philip simply follows him at his command to "Follow me." Galilee probably means the region around the sea of Galilee.

Philip was from the same town as Andrew and Peter, so maybe he'd heard them talk about Jesus.  The way things flow into v.45, it's quite possible that Nathaniel was from Bethsaida as well.

Philip basically says, "I've found the one who was prophesied, and it's Jesus of Nazareth."

Nathaniel responds with one of my favorite lines ever: "Can anything good come out of Nazaeth."

Philip brings Nathaniel to Jesus, and Jesus complements him.  Nathaniel says, "How do you know me?"  Jesus responds by saying he saw him sitting under a fig tree.

I'm trying to understand the precise cause of Nathaniel's surprise.  I belive Jesus was in the area, but I don't know how far off, since Bethsaida is on the Sea of Galilee.  I imagine that regardless of their locations, that Nathaniel was amazed because he didn't know Jesus before this, yet Jesus knew him.

In v.49 Nathaniel calls Jesus "the Son of God," and "the King of Israel."  The latter leads me to believe that Nathaniel thought Jesus was the new king, coming to lead a revolution against the Romans.

Finally, Jesus references Jacob's Ladder, although I'm not sure what this means.

<blockquote>"...the sense is, that there would be immediately made such clearer discoveries of his person, and grace by his ministry, and such miracles would be wrought by him in confirmation of it, that it would look as if heaven was open, and the angels of God were continually going to and fro, and bringing fresh messages, and performing miraculous operations"<cite>John Gill</cite></blockquote>