---
layout: single_passage
title:  John 2&#58;1-12&#58; The Wedding at Cana
weight: 43.002001
book_name: John
chapter_name: John 2
creation_date: May 22, 2019
tags: [passage, miracles]
people: [Mary, Disciples, James&comma; Brother of Jesus]
locations: [Cana, Galilee, Capernaum]
---

In v.1, "the third day" reminds us that we are still within the first week of Jesus's ministry.

### The Role of Mary

He is attending a wedding with his disciples, and Mary is also there.  When she tells Jesus that they've run out of wine, he says to her, "My hour has not yet come."  I'm not sure why he says this, as John the Baptist has already revealed that he is the Lamb of God, and he's also gathered at least some of his disciples.

Regardless, it seems that Mary already knows that Jesus will act when she tells the servants to "Do whatever he tells you."  This confidence that Jesus will do at least _something_ lets us know that Mary knew about his power.

This, I think, lends itself to the Catholic practice of "praying" to Mary, asking her to influence Jesus in our present time.

### Jesus Works Perfectly

"...but you have kept the good wine until now." (v.10) When weddings were held, the good wine was given at the beginning, because as people got more drunk, the quality of the wine mattered less.  I also wonder if it isn't because guests might leave early, and they wanted them to get the best wine before they left, leaving a good impression on them.

This lets us know that Jesus always does all things well.  He didn't make the wine at the low quality level that people expected.  He made it _perfect_.

John points out that this was the first miracle that Jesus did, and that it, "manifested his glory."  Also this made his disciples believe in him (v.11).

### Jesus's Family

Finally, Jesus leaves and goes to Capernaum.  Cana is a few miles north of Nazareth, and Capernaum is on the west side of the Sea of Galilee, near Bethsaida.

It says he went with "his mother and his brothers and his disciples."  This clearly points out that Jesus had brothers, as these men are listed separate from his disciples.  I wonder if ἀδελφοὶ refers to male siblings, or siblings of both genders. Mounce says that the plural of ἀδελφός can be inclusive of both men and women.

In fact, Mark 6:3 says that Jesus had sisters, and apparently his brothers' names were James and Joseph and Simon and Judas.  Since three of these names are also names of his disciples, it may seem that they are his disciples, except for the mention of Joseph.  Maybe this was a Joseph Jr.  See also Mat. 13:55, where the people rejected him at the synagogue, and they mention the same names for the brothers of Jesus.

Also, we know that there is a James, brother of Jesus (Gal 1:18, and prob Acts 21:17-18), which would be the James referenced above.

Jesus did (at least once) refer to his disciples as his brothers:

<blockquote> While he was still speaking to the people, behold, his mother and his brothers stood outside, asking to speak to him. But he replied to the man who told him, “Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?” And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said, “Here are my mother and my brothers! For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother.”<cite>Mat 12:46</cite></blockquote>

This passage sounds like the events recorded in Luke 4:16-30, but Matthew records this even happening after Jesus had taught in parables, and Luke makes it sound like this happened earlier in Jesus's ministry.
