---
title:  John 2&#58;13-17&#58; Jesus Cleanses the Temple
weight: 43.002013
layout: single_passage
book_name: John
chapter_name: John 2
creation_date: May 28, 2019
tags: [passage, anger, prophesy, money, passover]
people: []
locations: [Jerusalem, Temple, Capernaum]
---
Jesus went to Jerusalem for the Passover.  It's possbile that he went here from Capernaum, as it is the last mentioned place, and it also says that he stayed there for a few days, and I think the reason why that's mentioned is because this Passover event happened immediately following.

### Making Profit from God

There were two groups of people at the Temple:

1. Merchants selling animals for sacrifice
2. Money-changers

The merchants were making money off of people's need for animals to sacrifice.  Additionally, it's possible that this angered Jesus because this made these sacrifices convenient, and barely sacrificies at all.  Also, they probably charged a lot of money for this "convenience."

The money-changers were making money from the visitors to Jerusalem for the Passover.  They were converting foreign currency for local currency, and most likely charging outrageous fees.

It's likely that these two groups were working together to squeeze visitors for all they could get.

I think the existence of the money-changers and merchants points to how external worship had become to God's people.  They would just pay some fees and in a few more steps they'd have done their religious duty.  "They draw near me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me."

### Jesus's Anger

Jesus made a whip and drove them all out of the temple.  He forced out the merchants and their animals, and dumped over the tables of the money-changers, most likely causing a mad-grab for the coins.

He then said, "...do not make my Father's house a house of trade." And this was to fulfill the scripture, "Zeal for your house will consume me."(Ps 69:9)

This passage shows us that there is a righteous way to be angry.  We often see anger as a bad or even sinful thing&mdash;and it definitely can be&mdash;but Jesus demonstrates that anger for the right things, the things of God, can be more right than just letting bad things happen.
