---
title:  John 2&#58;18-22&#58; I Will Raise this Temple in Three Days
weight: 43.002018
layout: single_passage
book_name: John
chapter_name: John 2
creation_date: June 2, 2019
tags: [passage, resurrection, prophecy]
people: []
locations: [Jerusalem, Temple, Nazareth]
---

## The People Question Jesus's Authority
The Jews questioned Jesus after he drove the merchants and money-changers out of the Temple.  They asked, "What sign do you show us for these things?"

The Jews refers to the crowd, not merely a group of priests or Pharisees.

They were asking, "On what authority did you do this?" "Show us your credentials."  The request for a sign points to them seeing him as a prophet, or at least one who claimed to be.

Perhaps they were upset because he disrupted the local economy and he was being questioned by those merchants and the people who were depending on their "services" to use the Template.

### Destroying the Temple

Jesus answers with, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up."  Of course, we know now that this is a prophecy foretelling his death and ressurrection, but the crowd didn't understand.

This statement got him in a lot of trouble.  Here in John (at least), this is the first statement he makes that would be seen as blasphemy, although Luke 4:16ff. (Jesus rejected at Nazareth) was most likely before this event in John.

The interesting thing is that at this point Jesus didn't say that _he_ was going to destroy the Temple.  Jesus was asked this same question by the Jewish leaders during his trials later (Matthew 26:59-61 and Mark 14:57-58).  In these places he says that _he_ will destroy the temple ("I am able..." and "I will...," respectively).  This is where the real "blasphemy" happens.

### Worthy of an Explanation

Naturally, the people didn't understand this.  I doubt even the disciples did, as they rarely understood his parables without an explicit explanation from Jesus.  The Jews then said, "It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and you will raise it up in three days?"

John explains this for us, noting that Jesus was talking about "the temple of his body," and gives a personal perspective by saying, "his disciples remembered that he had said this..."

### Application

If we're going to follow Jesus and do the hard things he asks of us, we will be questioned about our authority.