---
layout: post
title:  John 1&#58;1-5&#58; The Word
tags: [John]
---

## Hymn to the Word (v 1)

The Word.  The Word, the Word, the Word.  This means so much that I'm having a hard time finding a place to begin.

The Λόγος.  The purpose. The Hebrew <em>Dabhar</em> (דָּבָר), meaning <em>deed</em>, or <em>"that which was accomplished."</em>

Jesus is God's purpose, his <em>intent</em>.  He is God's deed, God's action.

Jesus is God's message, his statement to the universe.  He is the embodiement of what God wants us to know about himself.

Jesus is God's wisdom, his logic.  He is the incarnation of God's knowledge and understanding of all things: the nature of God, the nature of man, and the inevitable need for a savior.

I argue that Jesus is the embodiment of the <em>Missio Dei</em>, the combination and culmination of God's knowledge & wisdom, His purpose, and His message.  <strong>Jesus is everything that God has for us.</strong>

Jesus is God on a mission.  This mission was made flesh and lived among us.

A few plain points:
<ul>
<li>Jesus is from Eternity past</li>
<li>Jesus was with God</li>
<li>Jesus was God</li>
<li>Jesus simultaneously was God and was with God</li>
</ul>

This highlights that although John records that Jesus is God's only <em>begotten</em> son, he was not a born or created son.  If Jesus was there from the beginning, he was not part of creation nor a created thing (see Col 1:15).

Also, we see here a reflection of the Trinity, that Jesus was God and was with God simultaneously.  "I and the Father are one," Jesus said.

## Creator (vv 2-3)

Hebrew OT book names are known by their first line.  Genesis is actually called, "In the beginning," and John starts his Gospel in precisely the same way, pointing to the eternality of Jesus, that he was there at the start before the world was made.  "All things were made through him." Nothing that exists exists without being created by him first.  There is no other creator, and nothing was created without his permission, volition, oversight and provision.

This passage cannot be discussed without mentioning Paul's writing on the preeminence of Christ in [Col 1:15-20](https://www.esv.org/Colossians+1/).  Paul carries on the same themes as John does here.  Jesus is creator, and all things were made through him and also <em>for him</em>.

## Life-giver (v 4)

"In him was life" means so much more than merely, "he gave life."  He is the source of life, the originator and the fountain it flows from.  There is no life apart from him, and this is both physical and spiritual life.

## The Light of Men (vv 4-5)

This spiritual life was "the light of men," illuminating mankind, giving clarity in the darkness of this world, cutting through our blindness and giving us vision and revealing to us things as they really are.

v4 says life <em>was</em> the light of men in the past tense, however, in v5 it says the light <em>is shining</em> in the darkness, a present ongoing radiance that reaches us still today.

However, the darkness has not (literally) grasped it.  Darkness cannot control nor understand nor overcome this light, this revelation of truth over error, the exposing of evil and sin, this laying-bare of our inner selves.



