---
layout: single_passage
title:  John 4&#58;43-12&#54;
weight: 43.004043
book_name: John
chapter_name: John 4
creation_date: September 22, 2019
tags: [passage, faith, miracles, healing]
people: [John the Baptist]
locations: [Galilee, Capernaum, Samaria]
---
This passage begins with the end of the story of the Woman at the Well.  And although this event mostly takes place under the "Jesus Heals an Official's Son" heading in the ESV, it really begins back at 43.

Here, Jesus does something strange.  He heads home to Galilee, where John notes that "a prophet has no honor in his own hometown,"  yet Jesus goes.  He's gone to the Samaritans, and now he's returning home to his own people.

Furthermore, even though John says a prophet is without honor, v45 says that the Galileans actually _welcomed_ him.  Why?

Jesus was celebrated by the people back at home because he was now known as a miracle worker.  In verse 46 he's in Cana, any of these people were either at the wedding in Cana where He turned water into wine, or they heard the news by this time.  I think they welcomed him because they could say, "Hey, I know that guy!"  "I grew up down the street from that guy!" or "I went to school with him!"  It was most likely a matter of pride for those people.

Naturally, they were missing the point about all of this, about why Jesus came back home, and why He was working miracles.

Enter the "official."  The Greek here actualy calls him a "royal one," which most likely means he was part of Herod Antipas' employees (remember that Herod put John the Baptist to death not long before this).

The official approaches Jesus and asked him to come to his home in Capernaum to heal his son.  Note that Capernaum was 15 miles away.

Jesus responds with what appears at first to be heartless: "Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe."  You can't see this in English, but in the Greek, John used the plural "You" or "You guys" or "Y'all."  Jesus was addressing the crowd.  Jesus' point here should not be missed.  We can't follow him because we like what He does, or what He can even do for us.

Jesus gave the people in Cana at the time a sense of pride, of identity.  I think we can be members of a church because it looks good on a resume or a college application.  We can call ourselves Christians because it groups us in with "the good people," but that's ridiculous to Jesus.  In fact, it really makes him angry.

Again, the official says, "Sir, come down before my child dies."  This is a simple plea for help, stating that Jesus is his only hope, without Jesus all would be lost.  The man isn't there to see a mircale, he's there because Jesus is the only one who can help.

Jesus response was simple but powerful: "Go; your son will live."

When the man returned home, he found his son was well, and when they checked the time they could see that the fever broke right when Jesus spoke.

The lesson here is that we don't just turn to Jesus for show.  He works miracles to display his power, not for entertainment.  And when this official, this "unrighteous" person, one who should have been unlovable by Him because of his connection to Herod Antipas, Jesus rescued this man's son with just a word.

This passage also points back to John 4:42, where Jesus is called the "savior of the world."  Not just the Jews, not just his neighbors, but also the Samaritans and Gentiles, and now we can even see that he came to save even His enemies, if they will bow at his feet in faith and complete dependence.
