---
layout: single_passage
title:  John 7&#58;1-9&#58; God's Timing
weight: 43.003001
book_name: John
chapter_name: John 7
creation_date: February 7, 2020
tags: [passage, my sermons]
people: [James, Jesus' Brothers]
locations: [Galilee]
---

_I preached on this passage on January 5, 2020._

_The context for this passage is over Christmas, Irani-backed militia members rioted the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad.  In response, President Trump ordered a drone strike, killing Iran's second-in-command, Qasem Soleimani, as well as an important Iraqi militia leader.  In response, Iraq asked us to leave the country for violating their sovereignty, and Iran swore revenge.  When this message was preached, we were still awaiting Iran's response._


# Hook
-----
## Uncertainty

### Qasem Soleimani

How will Iran strike back?
* Hijacking?
* Bombing?
* Assassination?
* Sinking a ship?
* Disrupt Oil?
* Cyber Attacks?

Will we go to war?

The Selective Service website went down this week, overwhelmed by people with questions about the draft.

### Our Lives
On top of this, we have the uncertainty in our lives
* Finances
* Medical Bills
* Work
* Relationships

**How do we, as Christians, face the uncertainty in this world?**

# Book
-----
## Intro

Do you believe that this Bible is the Word of God?
* That it is useful for teaching and preaching?
* That by hearing it, people are saved?
* That it is true? From cover to cover?
* Every word?

Today we’ll test that.

We [Pathway] go through books verse-by-verse instead of just picking topics.  Not a coincidence that we have this passage today.

Read John 7: 1-9

## John Review
Type of Book - Gospel

Synoptic Gospels - “seeing all together” a shared point of view

The gospel of John is different because of its timing. Synoptic Gospels written ~30 years after Jesus.  John was written much later.

*Who was John?*

Wrote four books of the Bible - John, 1 John, 2 John, 3 John, and Revelation.

Because it was written so much later, the gospel of John carries a different feel than the other gospels.  It reads less like a straight documentation of events, and more like an old man remembering a friend from early in life.  Its purpose is to make you believe, not merely to record facts.

## Passage Exposition

### v1: Jesus’ Order of Events/Travels

* Jesus born in Bethlehem (Judea)
* Grew up in Nazareth (Galilee)
* (ch. 2) Wedding in Cana (Galilee)
* (ch. 2:13 ff.) Cleanses the Temple/Nicodemus (Jerusalem/Judea)
* (ch. 4) Woman at the Well (Samaria)
* (ch. 4:46) Heals Official’s Son (Galilee)
* (ch. 5) Heals Man at Pool (Jerusalem)
* (ch. 6) Feeding of the 5,000 (Galilee)
* (ch. 7) Feast of Booths (Jerusalem)

### v2: Feast of Booths

This was a festival celebrating God’s provision. Lev. 23:33-43 (esp. 42, 43)

Booths: small tents, “Tabernacles.”  (The Tabernacle in the OT was a tent, a mobile temple).

Held in Jerusalem, where Jesus was wanted by the Jews.

### v3: Jesus’ Brothers

We know Jesus had brothers.  James, Joseph, Judas (or Jude), and Simon (Matthew 13:55, Mark 6:3).  James and Jude went on to write the books of the Bible named after them.

Could you imagine having Jesus as a brother?

### v3-4: What the Brothers Said

The brothers told him to go to Jerusalem because they wanted him to show himself to the world.

Why did they say this?
* They knew the Jews wanted to kill him, and they wanted it to happen.
* They were mocking him
* They wanted to see what he would do in Jerusalem (this would point back to the others in John that wanted signs)
* They were coming up with their own plan for Jesus (instead of considering God’s)

### v5: The Brothers were Unbelievers

Yet they were unbelievers.  Why did they tell him to do this?

### v6: Why Jesus didn’t want to go into Jerusalem

It wasn’t his time.

### v7: The World Hates Jesus, but not Unbelievers

Jesus said that the world hates him, but not his brothers.  It hates him because he reminds them that their deeds are evil.  Conversely, the world doesn’t hate his brothers because they are part of the world.

### v8: Jesus isn’t Going to the Feast


# Look
-----
Why did John take the time to write this interaction?  Why is this in the Bible?

He wanted to underscore the importance of timing in God’s plan.

## 1.  God Has A Timetable

History is one continuous story, we live in a play, a drama, displaying the worth of Jesus to the world.

**Ecc 3:1-8**

There is a season for everything.
Events happen in order.

## 2. Jesus Followed God’s Timing

The Wedding at Cana
    _“Woman, what does this have to do with me?  My hour has not yet come.”_

Samaritan woman
    _“The hour is coming, and is now here, when true worshippers will worship the father in spirit and truth.”_

Healing at the Pool
    _“Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God and those who hear will live.”_

Triumphal Entry
	_“The hour has come for the Son of God to be glorified.”_

High Priestly Prayer
    _“Father the hour has come; glorify your Son that the Son  may glorify You.”_

## 3. Believers Trust in God’s Timing

This passage points out that we can know the brothers weren’t believers because they weren’t concerned with God’s timing.

We trust in it, and we also follow it.  We care about it.


# Took
-----
Christians face uncertainty with confidence in God’s timing.

World War III might break out, but we would still have hope.  John knew this hope because of his life.  This is the theme of the book of Revelation.

This too shall pass. There will be wars and rumors of wars.

You won’t leave this Earth before God has appointed.

Also, you may have something you need to do, or need to not do.  Make sure you do it on God’s timing.  Maybe you shouldn’t force it, or maybe you need to move right now.

Time/season for everything.  Jesus is returning.  We will wait in hope and share the gospel until he returns.

## Jesus' Final Word on Timing
**“Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me, to repay each one for what he has done.  I am the Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.” Rev 22:12,13**

